Update create-custom-column-type.md (#1597)
PrestaShop/docs: development/components/grid/tutorials/create-custom-column-type.md

---

# How to create a custom Column Type

> It is highly likely that you are struggling to develop a module based on the new standards. You want to display some kind of data in a way not already predicted by the core team. No worries. Let's have a look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You may need to display some kind of data in a specific format. This is how to do it: 
```

> ## Step 1. Define the new column type

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Step 1. Define the new column type

```

> Let's assume that we need to make an html column to fire some js script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume that we need to make an html column to display an object's ID within a `&lta>` html tag: 
```

> Create the following file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the following file:

```

```/modules/your_cool_module/src/Core/Grid/Column/Type/HtmlColumn.php```
```
<?php

namespace PrestaShop\Module\Yourcoolmodule\Core\Grid\Column\Type;

use PrestaShop\PrestaShop\Core\Grid\Column\AbstractColumn;
use Symfony\Component\OptionsResolver\OptionsResolver;

final class HtmlColumn extends AbstractColumn
{
    /**
     * {@inheritdoc}
     */
    public function getType()
    {
        return 'html';
    }

    /**
     * {@inheritdoc}
     */
    protected function configureOptions(OptionsResolver $resolver)
    {
        parent::configureOptions($resolver);

        $resolver
            ->setRequired([
                'field',
            ])
            ->setDefaults([
                'clickable' => false,
            ])
            ->setAllowedTypes('field', 'string')
            ->setAllowedTypes('clickable', 'bool');
    }
}
```

> ## Step 2. Use & call the new type

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Step 2. Use & call the new type

```

Go to
```/modules/your_cool_module/src/Core/Grid/Definition/Factory/YourCoolGridDefinitionFactory.php```.

In the space above "final class" add the line below:

```use PrestaShop\Module\Yourcoolmodule\Core\Grid\Column\Type\HtmlColumn;```

Then inside the getColumns function among other columns, you are welcome to use the following code snippet:

```
->add(
    (new HtmlColumn('some_column'))
        ->setName($this->trans('Print voucher', [], 'Modules.Yourcoolmodule.Admin'))
        ->setOptions([
            'field' => 'identifier_column'
        ])
)
```

> ## Step 3. Define the respective .html.twig

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Step 3. Define the respective .html.twig
```
